Hair Clip for Tenodesis

Context:
Tenodesis grasp is a functional hand movement, where wrist extension passively closes the fingers, and wrist flexion
opens them (leveraging the tendons in the arm instead of muscles). This is used by individuals with spinal cord injury,
in cases where someone may not have active finger control. ​The problem is for individuals using tenodesis grasp,
the standard wings on a hair clip may be difficult to grasp due to their short length. ​The aim of this project is to create a
universal device that can add length to the hair clip handles, making it easier for someone to grasp with tenodesis. ​

This matters for individuals with disabilities as people who rely on tenodesis grasp often have limited or no active finger
control, making small, short-handled objects difficult to manipulate. Standard hair clips require pinching small wings, 
which can be challenging or impossible to grasp using wrist-driven movement alone. As a result, individuals may need assistance
for basic grooming tasks, reducing independence and limiting their ability to manage personal appearance on their own. This enables users to
leverage wrist extension to securely grasp and open the clip using tenodesis, promoting independence in daily self-care routines, improves
accessibility to commonly used products.


Background: 
Tenodesis grasp is a functional hand movement, where wrist extension passively closes the fingers, and wrist flexion
opens them (leveraging the tendons in the arm instead of muscles). This is used by individuals with spinal cord injury,
in cases where someone may not have active finger control. ​

Problem: 
For individuals using tenodesis grasp, the standard wings on a hair clip may be difficult to grasp due to their short length. ​

Aim & Design Criteria: 
Create a universal device that can add length to the hair clip handles, making it easier for someone to grasp with tenodesis. 

Suggestions:
- Moldable thermoplastic may be helpful for prototyping designs.  ​

- Device will need to be very stably connected to the hair clip. ​

- Goal is for the device to be interchangeable/work with multiple clip designs and styles. 

Link to images of previous prototype images: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1coaCIpoYBnIYIiKnYE9XgHWAGuGvDhX7?usp=sharing​
