Q Charms Accessories Project (representing on behalf of the Washington Assistive Technology Act Program (WATAP))

Context:
Q Charms are a way for individuals to communicate with AAC icons, or can be used as a way to keep track of tasks. 
The Q Charms we are working with are 3D- printable charms that can fit on a silicon wristband or bracelet. ​
The bracelet that the Q charms are currently designed to fit on has limited length. Clinicians have also requested a Q charms
“lanyard”-style necklace that can be worn as an alternative to the wristband. ​The aim of this project is to 
(1) design an adjustable bracelet extender that can be used with the current Q charms bracelets​ & 
(2) design a wearable lanyard that can similarly have Q charms attached and detached.

This project matters for individuals with disabilities because Q Charms help with communication and task tracking, but
the current wristband is limited in size and may not meet all users’ needs. Some individuals may require alternative
wearing options due to sensory or mobility needs. Designing an adjustable bracelet extender and a lanyard-style wearable
increases accessibility, comfort, and flexibility. These solutions support independence and allow users to access their
communication tools in a way that works best for them.

Background:
Q Charms are a way for individuals to communicate with AAC icons, or can be used as a way to keep
track of tasks. The Q Charms we are working with are 3D-printable charms that can fit on a silicon wristband or bracelet. ​

Problem: 
The bracelet that the Q charms are currently designed to fit on has limited length. Clinicians
have also requested a Q charms “lanyard”-style necklace that can be worn as an alternative to the wristband. ​

Aim:
- (1) design an adjustable bracelet extender that can
be used with the current Q charms bracelets​

- (2) design a wearable lanyard that can similarly
have Q charms attached and detached. 

Design Criteria:
- Must work with current Q charms size/dimensions ​
- Should fit at least 6-10 Q charms on each wearable 

Suggestions:
- Make an extender that is easy to adjust for different wrist sizes.​
- Want charms to stay facing "outward" (no flipping/sliding)​
- Try to keep wearables from being bulky

Link to images of previous prototype images: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UGQD2eSTsunQjAjcm7AHaE2UQ3mcCO1I?usp=sharing
