Weighted Backpack Project (representing on behalf of Mercer Island School District)

Context:
This project for individuals with disabilities as weighted sensory input can help regulate anxiety, improve focus,
and support emotional stability for autistic teens and adults. Most existing weighted backpacks currently on the market
are designed for young children, limiting access to age-appropriate, durable options for when they grow older, creating
a gap where teens and adults need to use products that are not durable for daily use, or lack proper weight distribution.
This backpack design will allow the backpack to grow with the individual, allowing for easy weight modifications when needed. 

Background: Need for a functional, weighted backpack to support autistic teens and adults that needs to be durable,
with secure components that are easily accessible and strong, and is a design that "grows with the individual". ​

Problem: 
- Weighted input in backpacks for autistic adults and teens can support
sensory processing differences, and there are currently aren't many
backpacks on the market that are affordable, and visually aesthetic that
addresses these needs, while also making it a backpack that can grow
with an individual for long periods of time. ​

- Current sensory weighted backpacks are geared towards younger
children. 

Aim & Design Criteria: 
- Adapt a weighted backpack that is functional and durable (no
tear), and has secure components (nothing that could unravel,
get tangled or disorganized easily, rip, etc).​

- Should be a design and material that grows with the individual,
while also being aesthetically appropriate for individuals who may
benefit from additional sensory input. ​

Suggestions:
- Add weighted compression vests ​
- Add weighted lap pads ​
- Add 5-10% of body weight when considering weight amount, prioritizing personal comfort. ​
- Weight placement should be spread evenly, backpack sitting close to the body. ​
- Strap should be wide and padded, and chest or waist straps can help distribute weight and make the backpack more secure. 

Link to images of previous prototype images: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/11dvgi2VxaOKwJW3XamwTbC3Q4O6JojDT?usp=sharing
